# Blockchain-Demo

For this project, I used blockchain concepts in order to create a voting system that ensures the safety of the data stored in the election. The idea behind this is that series of votes are stored in a block that is immutable. In a blockchain, if you change the contents of the block, it also changes the hash that is the encryption of that block. The hash of the previous block is stored in the contents of the current block, therefore, changing a single block in the chain can compromise the entire system. 

In the file labeled blockchain, it provides the structure of the blockchain and the methods necessary for the system. I used mainly this [tutorial](https://medium.com/coinmonks/python-tutorial-build-a-blockchain-713c706f6531) I found online to learn about the basics of coding a blockchain. I was coding this mainly on pycharm after my VS code somehow stopped working.  For the initiation method, I created two lists acting as the chain for the information. The pending chain will  serve as a request to be added to the actual chain. That will be the process for miners to do proof of work by verifying the information. The add_block contains information about the data stored. After pending transaction is approved, the block can be added to the blockchain. In addition, for the hash function, the sha256 library can encode the individual block and print out a cryptographic hexadecimal digit for it to serve as a hash. And for valid method, it ensures that the overall blockchain is valid and correct in order to the previous and current hash are matches and allow more blokcks to be added later on. 

For the server and client files, I used two rasberry pi's and interacted them together. I used one rasberry pi to act as the client to input data, or a vote, into the blockchain that is present on the server file. I used socket communication in order to bind the rasberry pi to a host and send messages to each other. The name in the t1, t2, andt t3 are only placeholders in order to have a first block inside a chain. The string inside the host is empty, so the readers here can type it in according to their own host address. The rest of the methods are used to set up the connection and transfer the data. The client can then connect to the server and then send a request through the socket communication. 
